Good to see you again.
You will now explore triplets.
You'll see how you can
build pairs of inputs.
Rather than just classifying
what's an input is,
you're going to build something
that will allow you to
identify the difference
between two inputs.
Let's see how this works.
Here are three questions
where the first one,
how old are you, is the anchor.
The second one is a positive
example, what is your age?
The third one, where are you
from is a negative example.
Having the three
components here is
what gives rise to
the name triplets,
which is to say, an
anchor being used in
conjunction with a positive
and negative pairing.
Accordingly, triplet
loss is the name
for a loss function that
uses three components.
The intuition behind this
simple function is to
minimize the difference between
the similarity of A and N,
and the similarity of A and
P. You already know that,
as the difference gets bigger
or smaller along the x axis,
the loss gets bigger or
smaller along the y axis.
But notice, when the
difference is less than zero,
do you also want the loss
to be less than zero?
Let's think about
this for a moment.
If you gave the model
a positive loss value,
the model uses this to update
its weight to improve.
If you gave the model
a negative loss value,
this is like telling
the model, "Good job.
Please update your weight
to the worst next time."
So you don't actually
want to give
the model a loss value
that's less than zero.
In other words, when the
model is doing a good job,
you don't want it to
undo a [inaudible].
To make sure that
the model doesn't update
itself to do worse,
you can modify the loss so that
whenever the diff
is less than zero,
the loss should just be zero.
When the loss is zero,
we're effectively not asking
the model to update it's weights,
because it is performing as
expected for that
training example.
The loss-function now cannot
take on negative values.
If the difference is
less than or equal to 0,
the loss is 0.
If the difference
is greater than 0,
then the loss is equal
to the difference.
Notice the non-linearity happens
at the origin of this line chart.
But you might also wonder
what's happens when
the model is correct but
only by a tiny bits?
The model is still correct if
the difference is a tiny number,
that is less than zero.
What if you want
the model to still
learn from this example,
and ask it to predict
a wider difference for
this training example?
You can think of shifting
this loss function a
little to the left,
by a margin that we'll
refer to as Alpha.
Let's say we chose
Alpha to be 0.2,
if the difference between
similarities is very small,
like negative 0.1,
then if you add it
to the Alpha of 0.2,
the result is still
greater than 0.
The sum of the diff plus
Alpha can be considered
a positive loss that tells
the model to learn
from this example.
You can see this visually
in the line chart.
The loss function is shifted
to the left by the amount Alpha.
The diff is along
the horizontal axis.
When the difference is less than
zero but small in magnitude,
the loss is greater than zero.
So if the difference is smaller
in magnitude than Alpha,
then there is still a loss.
This loss tells the
model that it can still
improve and learn from
this training example.
Triplet loss, as the difference
with a margin Alpha,
is what you will implement in
the assignments which
you will code like this,
which is the triplet
loss function for A,
P and N. A small
detail worth noting.
In these explanations,
I've been using similarity
because that's what will be
used in the programming
assignments,
so similarity of v_1, v _2.
But if you were to
read the literature,
you might find d of v_1,
v_2 used also, where
this d could be
any function that calculates
the distance between two vectors.
A distance metric is
the mirror image of
a similarity metric,
and a similarity metric
can be derived from
a distance metric.
One example of a distance
metric is Euclidean distance.
Selecting triplets A, P,
and N for training
involves two steps; first,
select a pair of questions
that are known to be
duplicates to serve as
the anchor and positive,
and you'll do this from
the training set; second,
select a question
that is known to be
difference in meaning
from the anchor,
to form the anchor and
the negative pair.
If you were to select
triplets at random,
you'd be likely to select
non-duplicative pairs A and N,
where the loss is 0.
The loss is zero whenever
the model correctly
predicts that A and
P are more similar relative
to A and N. When the loss is 0,
the network has nothing more to
learn from the triplets example.
So we can train more
efficiently if we choose
triplets that show the
model when it's incorrect,
so that's just going to adjust
it's weight and improve.
Instead of selecting
random triplets,
you'll specifically select
so-called hard triplets.
That is, triplets that are
more difficult to train on.
Hard triplets are those
where the similarity
between anchor and
negative is very close to,
but still smaller than
the similarity between
anchor and positive.
When the model encounters
a hard triplet,
the learning algorithm
needs to adjust its weight,
so that's it's going
to yield similarities
that line up with the
real-world labels.
So by selecting hard triplets,
focusing the training
on doing better,
on the difficult cases,
that it's predicting incorrectly.
I spoke about easy
and hard triplets.
I also spoke about a margin.
In the next video, you'll see
how all these concepts come
together to help us
create a cost function.